.TH BUILDAIX 1 "04 March 2016"
.SH NAME
Buildaix \- automate process of creating installp format software packages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B buildaix
[
.I -h # help/syntax
.I [-p prefix] [{-e eprefix | -E}] [-F fileset] [-P Program.Product]
 [-f] [-U] [-V N.N.N.N] [-D directory] [additional flags for configure]
.I {-B | -T}
]
.SH INTRODUCTION
.B buildaix
automates creation of installp packages from opensource packages that conform to GNU packaging guidelines.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
help syntax message
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fBprefix\fR
By default the \-\-prefix argument is: \-\-prefix=/opt. Use this argument to change \$prefix to something else.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR \fBeprefix\fR
By default the \-\-exec\-prefix argument is same as $prefix. Use this argument to change it to something else.
.TP
\fB\-E\fR changes \-\-exec\-prefix argument to $prefix/$PROGRAM/$PRODUCT
.B aixinfo
is called to set $PROGRAM and $PRODUCT.
.TP
\fB\-P\fR \fBProduct.Packge\fR
Specify the Product.Package part of the fileset being built. These will override aixinfo (but not effect -E)
.TP
\fB\-F\fR \fBFileset\fR
Specify the Fileset part part of the fileset Product.Package.Fileset being built.
This will override aixinfo
.TP
\fB\-V\fR \fBV.R.M.F\fR
Specify the VRMF (Version Release Maintenance Fix) part of the fileset
Product.Package.Fileset.$VRMF being built.
Format is any combination between N.N.N.N to NN.NN.NNNN.NNNN - and all characters must be numbers (seperated by .).
.TP
\fB\-D\fR \fBDirectoryPath\fR
Prepare a proposal of commands to copy and package \fBDirectoryPath\fR as an installp package.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR
Force a run of ./configure.
Will attempt a "make distclean" and then do a forced remove of \fIMakefile\fR and config.* files
.TP
\fB\-U\fR
Force UNSAFE mode for projects needing this with
	export FORCE_UNSAFE_CONFIGURE=1
.br
This is needed by some GNU projects.
.TP
\fB\-B\fR
Copy buildaix scripts to $BASEDIR/buildaix/bin for further customization
specific to this package. If no customization is needed, just remove the script
from the directory.
.TP
\fB\-T\fR
Copy liblpp script templates for (un)pre_i, (un)post_i and (un)config to  $BASEDIR/buildaix and $BASEDIR/buildaix/root
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
The standard environment variables CC, CFLAGS, CPPFLAGS, LFLAGS affect the behavior of configure. When CC is not defined it defaults to xlc. Additionally, -O2 is added to CFLAGS.
If zlib.h cannot be found in /opt/include, or /usr/include then /opt/buildaix/include is
added to CFLAGS and CPPFLAGS
.PP
Not directly related to buildaix - the environment variable VERBOSE - when set to anything will cause the buildaix packages, if the template defaults are used - to
print the script and working directory as the package is processed by installp
.SH CAVEATS
This program was written by the author to learn and provide an example
on how to use the AIX mkinstallp command.
.PP
Note: you can write programs to override the default behavior by placing
buildaix.ksh, aixinfo, and/or mkinstallp.ksh in $BASEDIR/buildaix/bin.
See the option -T
.PP
/usr/bin/buildaix is a symbolic link to /opt/bin/buildaix.ksh

.SH SEE ALSO
aixinfo(1) (not ready yet)
.SH AUTHOR
Michael Felt
.SH Copyright
Copyright 2011-2016 by ROOTvg.net and AIXTOOLS.net
